[v22.1.x] docs: add release notes for 22.1.0 (#6545)
dashpay/dash: doc/release-notes.md

# Dash Core version v22.1.0

> This is a new minor version release, bringing new features, various bugfixes

Reviewer: This isn't a complete sentence. Maybe deleted a line you didn't intend to?

Author: How about?
```suggestion
This is a new minor version release, bringing new features, and various bugfixes.
```

Reviewer: Sure

# Release Notes

Build Changes
-------------

The macOS distribution is no longer packaged in a disk image (DMG) and
is now packaged in a ZIP archive. The macOS distribution is once again notarized.

> BIP324 / v2 P2P Protocol

Reviewer 2: nit:

```suggestion
BIP324 / P2Pv2 Protocol
```

------------------------

> Version 2 of the Dash P2P protocol / BIP324, which enables encryption of the p2p protocol,

Reviewer 2: nit:

```suggestion
Version 2 of the Dash P2P protocol / BIP324, which enables encryption of the P2P protocol,
```

has been enabled by default in this version. This was initially introduced in Dash Core
v22.0.0 as an experimental feature and has now been enabled by default. This change is
backward compatible, and connections to peers which do not support the v2 protocol will
revert to using the v1 protocol.

Network Changes
---------------
System ports, or ports that are lower than 1024 are now considered to be "bad" ports.
As a result, other peers will avoid connecting to nodes that are listening on these ports.
This change is to prevent potential DDoS attacks against services running on these ports.
A number of other ports commonly used for authenticated services are also considered "bad" ports.

> You can view [the list of bad ports here](doc/p2p-bad-ports.md).

Reviewer 2: `release-notes.md` is already in `doc`, relative link will resolve to `doc/doc/p2p-bad-ports.md`.

```suggestion
You can view [the list of bad ports here](p2p-bad-ports.md).
```

Reviewer 3: The relative link will be broken once we archive these release notes on next release. How about
```suggestion
You can view [the list of bad ports here](https://github.com/dashpay/dash/blob/v22.1.x/doc/p2p-bad-ports.md).
```

Tests
-----

> - Command line arguments `-dip8params`, `-bip147height` are removed in favour of `-testactivationheight`. (dash#6325)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Command line arguments `-dip8params` and `-bip147height` are removed in favor of `-testactivationheight`. (dash#6325)
```

- Several hard forks now activate earlier on regtest.

## New RPCs

- **`getislocks`**
    - Retrieves the InstantSend lock data for the given transaction IDs (txids).
      Returns the lock information in both a human-friendly JSON format and a binary hex-encoded zmq-compatible format.

Updated RPCs
------------

- The top-level fee fields `fee`, `modifiedfee`, `ancestorfees` and `descendantfees`
  returned by RPCs `getmempoolentry`,`getrawmempool(verbose=true)`,
  `getmempoolancestors(verbose=true)` and `getmempooldescendants(verbose=true)`
  are deprecated and will be removed in the next major version (use
  `-deprecated=fees` if needed in this version). The same fee fields can be accessed

>   through the `fees` object in the result. WARNING: deprecated

Reviewer 2: nit: spacing needed for better readability

```suggestion
  through the `fees` object in the result.
  
  WARNING: deprecated
```

  fields `ancestorfees` and `descendantfees` are denominated in duffs, whereas all
  fields in the `fees` object are denominated in DASH.
- **`getbestchainlock` Changes**

>     - A new hex field has been added to the getbestchainlock RPC, which returns the ChainLock information in zmq-compatible, hex-encoded binary format.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - A new `hex` field has been added to the `getbestchainlock` RPC, which returns the ChainLock information in zmq-compatible, hex-encoded binary format.
```

> - **`getbestchainlock` Changes**
>     - A new `hex` field has been added to the `getbestchainlock` RPC, which returns the ChainLock information in zmq-compatible, hex-encoded binary format.

Reviewer 3: not sure why we have a title here
```suggestion
- A new `hex` field has been added to the `getbestchainlock` RPC, which returns the ChainLock information in zmq-compatible, hex-encoded binary format.
```

# Release Notes

Build Changes
-------------

The macOS distribution is no longer packaged in a disk image (DMG) and
is now packaged in a ZIP archive. The macOS distribution is once again notarized.

BIP324 / v2 P2P Protocol
------------------------

> Version 2 of the Dash P2P protocol / BIP324, which enables encryption of the p2p protocol
> has been enabled by default in this version. This was initially introduced in Dash Core
> v22.0.0 as an experimental feature, and has been now enabled by default. This change is
> backwards compatible, and connections to peers which do not support the v2 protocol will
> revert to using the v1 protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 2 of the Dash P2P protocol / BIP324, which enables encryption of the p2p protocol,
has been enabled by default in this version. This was initially introduced in Dash Core
v22.0.0 as an experimental feature and has now been enabled by default. This change is
backward compatible, and connections to peers which do not support the v2 protocol will
revert to using the v1 protocol.
```

Network Changes
---------------

> System ports, or ports that are lower than 1024 are now considered to be "bad" ports.
> As a result, other peers will avoid connecting to nodes that are listening on these ports.
> This change is to prevent potential DDoS attacks on services that are running on these ports.
> A number of other ports commonly used for authenticated services are also considered "bad" ports.
> You can view [the list of bad ports here](doc/p2p-bad-ports.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
System ports, or ports that are lower than 1024 are now considered to be "bad" ports.
As a result, other peers will avoid connecting to nodes that are listening on these ports.
This change is to prevent potential DDoS attacks against services running on these ports.
A number of other ports commonly used for authenticated services are also considered "bad" ports.
You can view [the list of bad ports here](doc/p2p-bad-ports.md).
```

Tests
-----

> - Command line arguments -dip8params, -bip147height are removed in favour of -testactivationheight. (dash#6325)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Command line arguments `-dip8params`, `-bip147height` are removed in favour of `-testactivationheight`. (dash#6325)
```

> - A number of hard forks now activate earlier on regtest. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Several hard forks now activate earlier on regtest.
```

> - A number of hard forks now activate earlier on regtest. 

Reviewer 3: linter complains:
```suggestion
- A number of hard forks now activate earlier on regtest.
```

## New RPCs

- **`getislocks`**
    - Retrieves the InstantSend lock data for the given transaction IDs (txids).

>       Returns the lock information in both human-friendly JSON format and binary hex-encoded zmq-compatible format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Returns the lock information in both a human-friendly JSON format and a binary hex-encoded zmq-compatible format.
```

Updated RPCs
------------

- The top-level fee fields `fee`, `modifiedfee`, `ancestorfees` and `descendantfees`
  returned by RPCs `getmempoolentry`,`getrawmempool(verbose=true)`,
  `getmempoolancestors(verbose=true)` and `getmempooldescendants(verbose=true)`
  are deprecated and will be removed in the next major version (use
  `-deprecated=fees` if needed in this version). The same fee fields can be accessed
  through the `fees` object in the result. WARNING: deprecated

>   fields `ancestorfees` and `descendantfees` are denominated in sats, whereas all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  fields `ancestorfees` and `descendantfees` are denominated in duffs, whereas all
```

>   fields in the `fees` object are denominated in DASH.

Reviewer: I was looking at this today and per the docs these have been deprecated since 0.17.0. Are we sure something changed?

Reviewer: @kwvg clarified for me. You can ignore the original comment and mark it resolved.

- **`getbestchainlock` Changes**
    - A new hex field has been added to the getbestchainlock RPC, which returns the ChainLock information in zmq-compatible, hex-encoded binary format.
- `lockunspent` now optionally takes a third parameter, `persistent`, which
  causes the lock to be written persistently to the wallet database. This
  allows UTXOs to remain locked even after node restarts or crashes.

> GUI changes

Reviewer 4: consider include several Qt improvements:

 - fixing issue on windows with window resize:     Merge #6471: fix: don't shrink window when setting minimum width

-----------

> - UTXOs which are locked via the GUI are now stored persistently in the
>   wallet database, so are not lost on node shutdown or crash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- UTXOs locked via the GUI are now stored persistently in the
  wallet database and are not lost on node shutdown or crash.
```

- Improved GUI responsiveness for large wallets. (dash#6457)

# v22.1.0 Change log

See detailed [set of changes][set-of-changes].

# Credits

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- Kittywhiskers Van Gogh
- Konstantin Akimov
- PastaPastaPasta

> - UdjinM6

Author: ```suggestion
- UdjinM6
- Vijaydasmp
```

  fields in the `fees` object are denominated in DASH.
- **`getbestchainlock` Changes**
    - A new hex field has been added to the getbestchainlock RPC, which returns the ChainLock information in zmq-compatible, hex-encoded binary format.
- `lockunspent` now optionally takes a third parameter, `persistent`, which
  causes the lock to be written persistently to the wallet database. This
  allows UTXOs to remain locked even after node restarts or crashes.

## GUI Changes
GUI changes
-----------

- **RPC Server Functionality Option**
    - A new option has been added to the "Main" tab in "Options" that allows users to enable RPC server functionality.
- UTXOs which are locked via the GUI are now stored persistently in the
  wallet database, so are not lost on node shutdown or crash.
- Improved GUI responsiveness for large wallets. (dash#6457)

# v22.0.0 Change log
# v22.1.0 Change log

See detailed [set of changes][set-of-changes].

# Credits

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- AJ ONeal
- Kittywhiskers Van Gogh
- Konstantin Akimov
- Odysseas Gabrielides
- PastaPastaPasta
- UdjinM6

> - Vijaydasmp

Reviewer 3: pls revert

https://github.com/dashpay/dash/issues?q=is%3Apr%20is%3Aclosed%20author%3Avijaydasmp%20milestone%3A22.1
